6. REST API Rate Limiting
Scenario: You are tasked with implementing rate limiting for a REST API endpoint to prevent abuse. The rate limit should be applied per IP address.
Requirements:
●	Describe a basic approach to implement rate limiting in a Node.js application.
Basic Approach to Implement Rate Limiting
1.	Define Rate Limits: Determine the allowed number of requests per time period (e.g., 100 requests per hour per IP address). This will help you set the parameters for your rate limiting.
2.	Track Requests: Use a data structure to track the number of requests made by each IP address within the defined time frame. This can be done in memory, in a database, or using a caching mechanism.
3.	Check Requests: For each incoming request, check the tracked requests for the user's IP address:
o	If the request count is within the limit, process the request.
o	If the limit is exceeded, return a response indicating that the rate limit has been exceeded.
4.	Reset Count: Implement a mechanism to reset the request count after the time period has elapsed.
Example Implementation
Here’s a simple example using a middleware approach:
javascript
Copy code
const rateLimit = require('express-rate-limit');
const express = require('express');
const app = express();
const limiter = rateLimit({
    windowMs: 60 * 60 * 1000, // 1 hour
    max: 100, // limit each IP to 100 requests per windowMs
    message: 'Too many requests from this IP, please try again later.',
});
app.use('/api/', limiter);
app.get('/api/resource', (req, res) => {
    res.send('Resource data');
});

app.listen(3000, () => {
    console.log('Server is running on port 3000');
});
Libraries and Strategies for Rate Limiting
1.	Express Rate Limit:
o	Library: express-rate-limit
o	Description: This is a simple and widely used middleware for Express applications. It allows you to easily implement rate limiting with options for customizing the window size, 

●	What libraries or strategies would you use to handle rate limiting?
Libraries and Strategies for Rate Limiting
1.	Express Rate Limit:
o	Library: express-rate-limit
o	Description: This is a simple and widely used middleware for Express applications. It allows you to easily implement rate limiting with options for customizing the window size, maximum requests, and response messages.
2.	Redis for Distributed Rate Limiting:
o	Library: rate-limiter-flexible or redis
o	Description: If your application is distributed across multiple instances, consider using Redis to store request counts. rate-limiter-flexible is a versatile library that can be configured to work with Redis, providing a centralized way to manage rate limits across instances.
3.	Custom In-Memory Solutions:
o	If your application is simple and doesn't require distributed rate limiting, you could implement a custom in-memory solution using a JavaScript object or a Map to track request counts and timestamps.
